README.md, before:

# Honey Badger Insights

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Giners/honey-badger-insights.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Giners/honey-badger-insights)

# Setup

The app leverages several sources of data to provide the insights into honeypot intrusions. Some of the data sources require authentication/authorization to use. What follows are instructions for setting up your environment to make use of the data sources.

## HoneyDB

The app leverages a threat intelligence data feed from a source named HoneyDB. HoneyDB provides real-time data about honeypot activity. HoneyDB requires authentication in order to use its data APIs. You can navigate [here](https://riskdiscovery.com/honeydb/#login) to login to HoneyDB with your GitHub account. After logging in to HoneyDB you will then be presented an API ID. Along with the API ID generate a key for accessing the threat information APIs of HoneyDB. You then need to make both the API ID and key available to the app so it can authenticate with HoneyDB. To do so you can set the environment variables named `HONEYDB_API_AUTH_ID` and `HONEYDB_API_AUTH_KEY`.

```shell
$ export HONEYDB_API_AUTH_ID=<Your HoneyDB API auth ID>
$ export HONEYDB_API_AUTH_KEY=<Your HoneyDB API auth key>
```

Alternatively you can modify the config file at `src/server/config.js` to provide your API ID and auth key. Modify the file so it looks like the following:

```javascript
const config = {
  // ... other config
  // Service credentials
  serviceCreds: {
    honeyDB: {
      id: process.env.HONEYDB_API_AUTH_ID || 'Your HoneyDB API auth ID',
      key: process.env.HONEYDB_API_AUTH_KEY || 'Your HoneyDB API auth key',
    },
  },
}

export default config
```

## Apility

The app leverages a threat intelligence data feed from a source named Apility. Apility provides real-time data about whether or not an entity (IP address) has been classified as an "abuser" by companies that maintain security lists/data. Apility requires authentication in order to use its data APIs. You can navigate [here](https://dashboard.apility.io/#/register) to register with Apility. After logging in to Apility you will be presented a dashboard which has a API key associated with your account. You need to make the API key available to the app so it can authenticate with Apility. To do so you can set the environment variable named `APILITY_API_AUTH_TOKEN`.

```shell
$ export APILITY_API_AUTH_TOKEN=<Your Apility auth key>
```

Alternatively you can modify the config file at `src/server/config.js` to provide your API key. Modify the file so it looks like the following:

```javascript
const config = {
  // ... other config
  // Service credentials
  serviceCreds: {
    apility: {
      token: process.env.APILITY_API_AUTH_TOKEN || 'Your Apility auth key',
    },
  },
}

export default config
```

## Google Maps JavaScript API

The app leverages the Google Maps JavaScript API to display a map of a geospatial location (i.e. latitude/longitude) of a honey badger relative to the city they were tracked to. To make use of the Google Maps JavaScript API you need to both enable it and generate an API key. To do so:

* Enable the Google Maps JavaScript API
* Obtain a Google API key

You can do all of these things from your Google developers console here: https://console.developers.google.com

After obtaining your Google API key you need to config the app to use it. Edit the file at `public/index.html` and modify the `<script>` element in the `<head>` that loads the Google Maps JavaScript API and replace `YOUR_GOOGLE_API_KEY` with your API key. The `public/index.html` ought to look like the following:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <!-- Other elements in the head ... -->
    <script type="text/javascript" src="https://maps.googleapis.com/maps/api/js?key=BIzaSyBitMQbVSfc7mg-dMEl_bQhJx7xmp9rcB0"></script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <!-- Other elements in the body ... -->
  </body>
</html>
```

## Returning Mock Data

Some of the 3rd party services that the app leverages set data/consumption limits/quotas. When doing development work with the app these limits/quotas could potentially be hit depending on the service tier you have signed up for. To this end mock data may be returned from the GraphQL service/API endpoint to avoid hitting your limits/quotas. The mock data returned is the same as the data returned by the 3rd party services except its not realtime data. To cause the GraphQL service/API endpoint to return mock data you can set the environment variable `RETURN_MOCK_DATA` to `true`.

Setting the environment variable `RETURN_MOCK_DATA` to `true` will cause mock data to be returned while running the server/GraphQL service/API endpoint as well as during testing. Note that this feature **shouldn't be used in production**.

# License

[MIT](https://gine.mit-license.org/)

Commit message:

docs: update README with an About section
Added an About section to the README that explains what the app is, how
it works, and why I built it.

README.md, after:

# Honey Badger Insights

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Giners/honey-badger-insights.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Giners/honey-badger-insights)

# About

Honey Badger Insights is a little app that helps visualize some security intelligence data feeds (vulnerabilities or threat intelligence data). Specificially the app focuses on data concerning honeypot activity.

A honeypot is a security mechanism that is set to detect unauthorized access of a resource/part of a system. Honeypots consist of data that appears to be valuable and a legitimate part of the system when in fact the honeypot is actually isolated from the system. The honeypots are monitored for those trying to access the system. Once someone has been identified as accessing the system they are marked as an attacker as there is no reason they ought to be accessing the honeypot unless it was for illicit purposes. Once marked as an attacker the system can isolate/block the attacker from gaining further access to the real parts of the system.

The name of the app stems from the fact that the honey badger animal loves honey and will go out of its way to obtain it. In fact the honey badger loves honey so much that it will try to gain access to honey even when it knows it should not by attacking bee hives whilst bees are present (and obviously while getting stung from the bees defending the bee hive!). In our case the attackers of a honeypot security mechanism are known as honey badgers since they love accessing resource/parts of a system they know they shouldn't.

The app leverages the [HoneyDB](https://riskdiscovery.com/honeydb/#about) HoneyDB security intelligence data feed to provide a list of the top 25 honey badgers seen in the last 24 hours. It then tries to build a profile of the honey badger by aggregating further details about the honey badger from the [Apility](https://apility.io/) security intelligence data feeds.

I'm very motivated by the ability to learn and solve new problems. I started this project as it would provide me an opportunity to learn by being hands-on in the security field which I am not well versed in and have a desire to learn more about. It also allowed me to further my full-stack development skills as it is something that I am teaching myself. I'm very interested in taking feedback in regards to security, full-stack development, or anything in general so that I can grow. You can open an issue/message me and leave your feedback.

Thanks for visiting! :smiley:

# Setup

The app leverages several sources of data to provide the insights into honeypot intrusions. Some of the data sources require authentication/authorization to use. What follows are instructions for setting up your environment to make use of the data sources.

## HoneyDB

The app leverages a threat intelligence data feed from a source named HoneyDB. HoneyDB provides real-time data about honeypot activity. HoneyDB requires authentication in order to use its data APIs. You can navigate [here](https://riskdiscovery.com/honeydb/#login) to login to HoneyDB with your GitHub account. After logging in to HoneyDB you will then be presented an API ID. Along with the API ID generate a key for accessing the threat information APIs of HoneyDB. You then need to make both the API ID and key available to the app so it can authenticate with HoneyDB. To do so you can set the environment variables named `HONEYDB_API_AUTH_ID` and `HONEYDB_API_AUTH_KEY`.

```shell
$ export HONEYDB_API_AUTH_ID=<Your HoneyDB API auth ID>
$ export HONEYDB_API_AUTH_KEY=<Your HoneyDB API auth key>
```

Alternatively you can modify the config file at `src/server/config.js` to provide your API ID and auth key. Modify the file so it looks like the following:

```javascript
const config = {
  // ... other config
  // Service credentials
  serviceCreds: {
    honeyDB: {
      id: process.env.HONEYDB_API_AUTH_ID || 'Your HoneyDB API auth ID',
      key: process.env.HONEYDB_API_AUTH_KEY || 'Your HoneyDB API auth key',
    },
  },
}

export default config
```

## Apility

The app leverages a threat intelligence data feed from a source named Apility. Apility provides real-time data about whether or not an entity (IP address) has been classified as an "abuser" by companies that maintain security lists/data. Apility requires authentication in order to use its data APIs. You can navigate [here](https://dashboard.apility.io/#/register) to register with Apility. After logging in to Apility you will be presented a dashboard which has a API key associated with your account. You need to make the API key available to the app so it can authenticate with Apility. To do so you can set the environment variable named `APILITY_API_AUTH_TOKEN`.

```shell
$ export APILITY_API_AUTH_TOKEN=<Your Apility auth key>
```

Alternatively you can modify the config file at `src/server/config.js` to provide your API key. Modify the file so it looks like the following:

```javascript
const config = {
  // ... other config
  // Service credentials
  serviceCreds: {
    apility: {
      token: process.env.APILITY_API_AUTH_TOKEN || 'Your Apility auth key',
    },
  },
}

export default config
```

## Google Maps JavaScript API

The app leverages the Google Maps JavaScript API to display a map of a geospatial location (i.e. latitude/longitude) of a honey badger relative to the city they were tracked to. To make use of the Google Maps JavaScript API you need to both enable it and generate an API key. To do so:

* Enable the Google Maps JavaScript API
* Obtain a Google API key

You can do all of these things from your Google developers console here: https://console.developers.google.com

After obtaining your Google API key you need to config the app to use it. Edit the file at `public/index.html` and modify the `<script>` element in the `<head>` that loads the Google Maps JavaScript API and replace `YOUR_GOOGLE_API_KEY` with your API key. The `public/index.html` ought to look like the following:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <!-- Other elements in the head ... -->
    <script type="text/javascript" src="https://maps.googleapis.com/maps/api/js?key=BIzaSyBitMQbVSfc7mg-dMEl_bQhJx7xmp9rcB0"></script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <!-- Other elements in the body ... -->
  </body>
</html>
```

## Returning Mock Data

Some of the 3rd party services that the app leverages set data/consumption limits/quotas. When doing development work with the app these limits/quotas could potentially be hit depending on the service tier you have signed up for. To this end mock data may be returned from the GraphQL service/API endpoint to avoid hitting your limits/quotas. The mock data returned is the same as the data returned by the 3rd party services except its not realtime data. To cause the GraphQL service/API endpoint to return mock data you can set the environment variable `RETURN_MOCK_DATA` to `true`.

Setting the environment variable `RETURN_MOCK_DATA` to `true` will cause mock data to be returned while running the server/GraphQL service/API endpoint as well as during testing. Note that this feature **shouldn't be used in production**.

# License

[MIT](https://gine.mit-license.org/)
